hello everyone it's Celina and I'm back
with another video and today I wanted to
talk to you guys about my reading
technique for legal cases last week I
shared my reading technique for academic
writing and as I pointed out is not
really working for case law because
cases are structured very differently so
for today I show you guys how are we
little kisses now before we get started
I just quickly want to say that I'm
using the Fire Brigades Union case as an
example and I'm going to put the full
citation of the case in the infobox
below if you guys are interested and
yeah let's get into the reading
technique now before we get into the
technique there's a really important
distinction that we have to make there
are reports of cases and unreported
cases reported cases are any cases that
have been reported in the door reports
and these cases are your best friends
because they have a head node so this is
what I had nerd looks like and it's
basically just a short summary I was
written by a little reporter and it
should tell you who the parties are what
was the main issue at hand and what was
decided now I think it's really
important to keep in mind Fred knows is
that not all head nodes are created
equally some of them contain the most
important reasons for a decision and
really give you a very very good summary
but some of them don't so don't treat a
head node as a sufficient summary for
your exam a supervision you really need
to read the entire case first and then
you can decide a bad head node is
sufficient only treacly had known as an
introduction to behave but don't think
if I just read the head node I've got to
be fine because usually your supervisor
will be able to tell if you just read
the head node because you are missing
some details of the case they were
probably relevant for the decision
making of the court so the key
difference between reported and reported
cases is that head node so if you're
reading an unreported case then there is
no head node because it wasn't reported
by an oral report so you're just gonna
have to find out all the facts through
the judgment which is usually pretty
easy because judges tend to give you all
the facts in the first few paragraphs of
their judgment but judges include all
the facts that they can find about that
case in their judgment so they also
include a lot of facts that aren't
necessarily relevant to you so for
example when exactly did something
happen like at 11:15 a.m. you don't need
to know that for your exam that's not
relevant for you but it's not included
in the judgment but obviously a head
node would not include something like
so that's why I had notes are really
really useful but don't read them as a
sufficient submarine so yeah now that we
got that distinction that was the way
let's get into the reading technique my
first step when reading a legal case is
to read the heads node and to then make
a diagram out of all the facts so that I
can refer to that diagram as I'm reading
the case now the reason I'm doing this
is to you know make sure that first of
all I understand what facts are relevant
secondly I know what the main issues of
the case are and lastly so that I have
something that I can refer back to as I
go through the case facts of cases can
become pretty complicated I think
anybody who has read the HS to your case
can relate and it's just really
important that you are on top of your
facts you really need to understand what
are the different legislations that are
relevant how are they affecting the fact
pattern that I'm looking at and what is
the issue that has been created and that
is related to these legislations
and it's really important that you get
the facts because if you don't even
understand what the issue at hand is and
what the situation looks like then you
won't be able to understand the legal
reasoning that then decided about that
situation so for me personally a little
flow chart or diagram is really really
useful just to see what the situation
looked like and to understand what the
issue is so here's a little diagram that
I drew for the Fire Brigades Union case
and it's just really really simple just
saying okay this is the legislation this
is what the legislation introduced this
is the power that the Secretary of State
got through to legislation this is what
the Secretary of State actually did and
then these are the two issues that are
created through it and that's it if you
guys are interested in that little
flowchart I'm gonna link it in the info
box below but it's basically just a
little summary of the case and the main
facts and then the issues that were
created through the scenario and that's
just something that's really really
useful to have while you're reading a
case because it is the bigger picture
summarized in a flowchart and you can
just always look back at it when you're
getting lost in the details of the case
so that you can more easily decide where
these details belong in that bigger
scenario and whether they're really
relevant for the decision that you're
analyzing now did you have your little
diagram ask yourself what is it that you
want to get from this case are you
interested in the ratios that is the
main legal reasoning behind the decision
of the court or are you more interested
in orbiter so as anything that is not
part of that main legal argument or you
may be interested
in both so if you're only interested in
the ratio of a case which is very likely
if you're reading a case in tort or
criminal law then it is usually enough
to read the leading judgement so the
leading judgment is the judgment of that
judge with which every other judge Freeh
long to the majority agreed you can find
out who that judge is usually about
reading the end of the head node or you
can just read the judgments and then we
usually tell you right at the beginning
if they agree with another judge and so
you know where to go for the needing
judgment now sometimes you may get lucky
especially in lower courts when there is
only one judgment but the higher court
especially up in the house floors or now
to Supreme Court there tend to be
multiple judgment so it's really useful
if you can just go to the leading
judgment and you don't need to read
through all of them because they often
repeat the same things about the fact
patterns etc but then they may disagree
about legal reasoning but if they agreed
with another judge then you know where
to find the ratio of the case and if
you're just looking for the ratio the
leading judgments should be enough now
it's really important that you really
ask yourself what you need to get from
that case because if you don't need to
just get the ratio then you need to read
all of the judgments it's highly likely
that you are looking for more than the
ratio if you're reading a case in
constitutional law because in
constitutional law there is a lot of
debate about orbiter so you're probably
going to have to read the entire case
it's also really important to note that
if you are looking for orbiter in a case
don't rely on the head node for any
information about the orbiter because
they had no summarizes the key facts and
the key thing about any case is its
ratio so the head node is usually not
going to make a note about the orbiter
so then you really have to go through
every judgment and read for it and find
out if there's anything that is
interesting for the particular thing
that you are studying now if you're just
looking for the ratio and you've read
the leading judgement then I recommend
summarizing the ratio in one sentence
and if you can do that then you know
you've understood the ratio it may take
up to two sentences but it really
shouldn't take more than two sentences
and if you are able to summarize that
legal argument in two sentences then you
know you've understood it so that's why
I recommend keeping it really really
short in order to ensure that you've
actually understood it if you have to
read all the judgments that I've
recommend making a short note about the
key argument
the judge in one to two sentences after
reading each judgment and that becomes
quite easy if you have a diagram because
you can also draw into your diagram and
you know see okay judge a maybe argues
that this affected this and that's why
this is the outcome for him but judge B
sees it differently services for him how
the legislation's interact and this is
the outcome so it's really handy if you
have this diagram because you can just
quickly look and see how different
judges interpret the legislation and see
its effects on the scenario
I recommend try and keep it as short as
possible and I would always recommend
one to two sentences per judgment and
that's it even if you're looking for
over two I would recommend keeping it as
short as you can so try to give yourself
one to two sentences but not more and
just try to summarize anything I was
important in our judgment in those one
to two sentences and write it into your
notes and once you're done with all of
that you should create a little note
where you just quickly write down the
level of the chord because that's really
important for how authoritative that
decision is and then what were the main
facts in this case so what is relevant
what do you need to know about the facts
of this case when you're thinking back
of it when you're revising for an exam
and then write down what was held so
what is the legal reasoning what
decision was made and if there was any
important orbiter or any interesting
dissents note it down there and that's
it and that's what that can look like
and I really recommend keeping it as
short as you can and I recommend
imagining it you're already writing your
needs for your exam because by the time
you're gonna get to revising for your
exam it's not going to be very helpful
to you if you have a few pages on every
case that you've read because you're
probably gonna read over a hundred cases
at that point and if you have a few
pages on every case that you read then
you're not gonna get done with your
revision by the time your exam comes
around so keep it as short as you can
and only put the most important things
into it so that you can revise this and
be done with your revision about that
case for this exam and by thinking about
that you're gonna keep your notes really
concise and only focus on the most
important things so that's I always
recommend thinking off your nails as
final loads that you have for your exam
they may not be the final notes for your
exam but it's just useful to have that
mindset because it just prevents you
from noting down any irrelevant details
that by the time you get to revising
you're just gonna ask yourself why on
earth did I write this down it's really
irrelevant
so by thinking that you just you know
keep yourself focused on the most
important things and yes that is my
reading technique for legal cases I hope
you guys found this video helpful and I
just quickly wanted to say that is
something really exciting happening
because I actually started a second
channel called Elena makes sense of law
and it's gonna be linked in the infobox
below and in the endcard and its channel
about law so I'll be talking about
undergraduate law topics to hopefully
help other law students if they're
revision for exams so if you guys have a
legal topic that you're unclear on and
that you need to revise for your exams
let me know I'd be really happy to make
a video about it on that channel and the
first video is that coming out today so
it would mean a lot to me if you guys
would check out the channel and yeah
that's it for today thank you guys so
much for watching this video have a nice
day bye